Have you applied to the School for Kingdom Evangelizers, but not been invited, or have
you wanted to apply, but wondered if the time was right?
You are not alone.
Because of the pandemic, classes are still suspended.
But if you are a pioneer between the ages of 23 and 65 and would like to attend a future
class of SKE, please contact your congregation secretary and fill out the online application
so that it can be considered when class is resumed.
As a reminder, your application is active for one year.
Therefore, you must apply each year that you desire to be considered.
Additionally, we are pleased to inform you that graduates of the Ministerial Training School
or the Bible School for Single Brothers who are still single and in full-time service
may now apply for the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
Is it possible to maintain our peace when dealing with intense trials and pressures?
How does Jehovah care for our needs when we are in distress?
The following video will introduce us to brothers and sisters who have been blessed by Jehovah
with peace.
The theme is, how our brothers are enjoying peace despite opposition, illness, economic
problems, and natural disasters.
As long as we live in Satan's world, all of us will face situations that can rob us
of our peace.
Regaining that peace can be difficult, but not impossible.
In this video, we will hear from three sisters and two couples who will speak candidly
about their trials and how they struggle to cope with them.
But in spite of what they have endured, please take note of their smiles, their joy,
what they did to regain or maintain their peace.
And take special note of how Jehovah helped them.
The governing body knows that many of you are suffering circumstances not unlike the
ones we will hear about.
And they trust that the examples in this video will help each of you to maintain your peace
as you endure various trials.
These sisters all over the world are facing natural disasters, economic collapse, illness,
persecution, despite all that, they keep joy and peace.
I can learn a lot from them.
My name is Antonelle.
I live here in Las Vegas, Nevada with my super mom and my troublemaking sister.
Many of my friends have always been important to me.
As a child, I lived with my mom and dad, and I was very close to my dad's side of the
family.
It was very loving, unified, and fun.
I was pretty happy, but Ari was starting to feel the effects of my cancer.
We just didn't know what it was really.
One day I was okay and the next day I started feeling bad, you know.
In my childhood, I played in the usual game.
I would catch insects, put them in a jar, and then bring them home.
Then I would get books, such as a criminal procedural code.
Open them up and start judging one of the books.
I would play the role of investigator and judge at the same time.
I was born into a family where everyone, starting with my grandparents, was either wearing
an officer's uniform or a judge's robe.
That's why I had this strong sense of justice.
But in 1989, my mother was in a tragic car accident, and she got severe burns on her face,
ends, and body.
Then my father, I'd seen my mom's condition, decided to leave us.
Yeah.
And it was at that moment, I guess, that my world, my ideals, they crumbled.
I, as a little kid, I always wanted, like, one big happy family.
Once we moved to New York for my treatment, I no longer had that big family bond anymore.
While I was feeling back then, in New York was just sadness.
Never really peace.
Well here in California, we're used to fires.
But when I got the call to evacuate that morning, I never knew by that evening, the whole
town of Paradise would be gone.
Just before the fire, we had the needs of the congregation, where they instructed us
of what to do, in the case of a disaster.
I had the truck full of gas.
I had my gold bag ready, and I had a map of where I was going.
I was ready.
The brothers also in their instructions said to obey the traffic instructors.
The instructor told us to turn right, and I didn't want to turn right.
But they said, obey them.
So I turned right, though I thought it'd be really bad.
The smoke got darker and darker, and finally it got black.
You couldn't see anything.
My mom always told me I've always been a caregiver ever since I was a little girl.
It was just part of who I was.
I don't like to see people suffer, it's very difficult for me.
I remember when I first started working as a nurse, I would always cry.
I cried, literally I cried every day that I had to go to work.
Not only was I overwhelmed being a new nurse, but also I was battling my depression.
In 2017, I was the treasurer for a prestigious bank in Nicaragua, and I was the father of
a one-year-old son.
We were very happy, but then I lost my job.
So I said, I have the experience, and Jehovah will help me find another job.
He's similar, and I kept looking for jobs, but doors kept closing.
I felt very tense, it made me feel very useless, like I can't even provide for my family.
It was something very difficult for me.
These dear brothers and sisters face serious challenges.
They may have had moments when they felt like job, when he said, I loath my life.
That is not an unusual human emotion.
Sometimes things in life don't work out as we had hoped, and it can hurt us deeply.
Does this mean that we are helpless victims of our circumstances?
Not at all.
Please pay close attention, and take note of why we can say that Margaret, Felix, Miguel,
Nikki, and Antoinette are not helpless victims to the contrary.
They are conquerors.
As you watch and listen, look for specific actions they took to maintain their peace,
and please give thoughtful attention to ways that you can imitate their faith.
Growing up, I wondered, why does a supreme judge, God, allow injustice and suffering?
And inside of me, I had this need to restore justice.
It was such a burning desire within me, and with that in mind, I moved to Russia to stay
with my sister.
She started to study the Bible, and was overflowing with the truth.
We talked for hours to lay into the night, so that's when my special relationship with
Jehovah began.
That's when I got a taste of what it's like to have a caring father.
It had been a while since I was able to feel that.
My baptism day was very exciting.
The spiritual family I inherited was very vast.
You can instantly feel the love.
I got baptized, and it seemed like miracles happened.
One after the other, we had a great life.
And then the persecution started with Brother Christensen, and then there was a ripple effect
of arrests.
One after the other, then it was our turn.
In June of 2018, a huge group of armed men came to us, to our home.
They represented the ideals of my childhood.
But now these people, this judicial system became the source of injustice to me.
I was sitting in a cage, the same way my bugs used to be in a jar.
I guess I felt like they did in your head.
At that moment, when you hear the verdict that you'll stay in prison, it's like you've
been knocked unconscious.
You've been hit in the head with something, and there's just a ringing sound in your ears.
And so I was taken away in handcuffs.
Of course, I wasn't in the best mood.
And then the doors of the elevator opened up, and in front of us, a lot of brothers and
sisters clapping their hands as hard as they could, and some were crying, but not crying
because they felt sorry for me.
They cried because they loved us, and because they were proud of us.
That's what always happens when you're just about to lose all your strength.
You hover dust, that's something for you, that gives you a second wind.
And so, they'll pause, the love, the tears, the shouts hanging there.
Everything will be okay.
They gave me a second wind, and with renewed strength, I could run the next part of the
race.
One of the guards was so surprised that he said, now that's some support you've got.
Without friends, I would be very lonely.
I would constantly be focusing on my illness.
The day I met Marissa was at a convention, she's a really great friend, a spiritual friend.
When she takes me to my hospital appointments, we would eat out.
I think food is just the common language between everyone, you know.
When you talk about food, you know, like, yes, we have something to talk about, you know,
I would be excited when she would take me to my hospital appointment.
She always makes me laugh, you know.
She always helps me have a good time, no matter what.
Again, friends really help encourage me.
Proverbs 17-17 says, a true friend shows love at all times, and is a brother who is born
for times of distress.
And I have seen this come true in my life.
When I lost my job at the bank, well, I felt very depressed, troubled, tense, and I have
a good friend that I can talk to.
And when I told him how I was feeling, he told me, look Miguel, don't look for the same
line of work.
Maybe what you need to do is make a change in your life.
Why don't you find some simple work outside of an office for a time that can help you
to keep your eye simple and allow you to provide for your family?
I watched my wife make bread for our family, and one day I told her, I'm going to make
that bread, but not for our family.
I'm going to make it to sell.
So she told me, no, are you crazy?
It was a big change, right, from having a position at a bank and handling a lot of money
to selling on the street.
So I told her, look, I'm going to put this hat on.
And I put like a chef's head on, and I told her, I'll be back in less than an hour.
Whether I sell or not, and that's what happened.
And to her surprise, I came back without any bread.
So when I got ready to leave the second time to sell, she said, okay, go, but leave
the hat here.
I also started to iron clothes for people in their homes, and it looks strange because
normally where we live, that type of work is done by a woman.
But for a man to go and iron clothes at someone's home, you don't see that.
But I didn't want to just sit back with my arms crossed and see what would happen.
No, I had to put my hands to work to earn a living for my family.
So I would preach one day, and the next day I would iron clothes.
The next day I would preach, and the day after that I would go out and sell bread.
So my mind was always occupied on doing something, either for the kingdom or my family.
And that helped me a lot.
I was feeling so sad.
I really needed Jehovah's help to figure out what was going on with me.
And I remember the 2009 article about depression came out.
And I realized, okay, Jehovah, you're telling me, this is what I have.
So now that I realize I have this, I got to figure out how I can manage it.
So I changed my eating habits.
I started exercising a lot more.
I realized that exercising and eating healthy really, really did help.
Also I made a journal, and I made different sections of the different aspects of my depression
that I dealt with.
Each section I would put scriptures, I would put articles and the illustrations, the pictures.
They speak, they speak a lot without saying anything.
Jehovah cares us.
Jehovah cares.
After some time in prison, they transferred me to a different cell.
And it were inmates who followed the orders of the investigators.
They did everything they could to other inmates.
They made life unbearable.
Why did they do this?
To break a person so that they would start to collaborate with the investigators, confess
to everything, and then be able to get transferred to another area.
Psalm 373.
Trust in Jehovah and do what is good.
I said, Jehovah, please help me to stay loyal to you.
Please help me.
My prayers were really simple.
Actually like two words, Jehovah help, Jehovah help, Jehovah help.
Despite how they treated me, when I dealt with others, I tried to treat them with kindness.
These people, they made life uncomfortable, unbearable.
But when they were treated kindly, they started to soften.
They began to treat me differently.
When I was being transferred out of that cell, the inmate that ran the area called me over
to him and said, come sit beside me.
And I sat down, then he said, if anybody in this prison touches you, tell them that I'll
come looking for him.
Then he said, get his things.
He told the other prisoners.
The cell doors opened and the guards saw a crowd of inmates, graphing my things and putting
them out into the hallway.
I left the cell without having to carry a thing.
The guard quietly closed the door.
And before the inmates returned to their cells, they even said goodbye.
Hug me and said, hang in there, you're going to be okay.
They went into the cell and the guard closed the door and asked me, boy, how long have you
been in there?
I sit three weeks.
He said, well normally people leave this cell beaten up and they're thrown out by the
other inmates.
They have to carry their own things and that's if the other inmates haven't thrown their
stuff out the door.
He couldn't believe what had just happened.
Exercising, changing my diet, the publications, journaling, that was my lifeline.
That really actually helped me for a long time.
But it came to a point where it stopped working as effectively.
I remember getting ready for dress for the meeting and I was fine.
Getting dressed for a meeting about to walk off the door but I couldn't.
There was this overwhelming fear that came over me and an overwhelming sadness that
came over me and I just lost it.
I just started crying.
I couldn't get myself together.
It was bad.
It got really bad.
My depression got really bad.
So it was very difficult for me to approach the brothers to ask them for help.
But at that time I knew that if I didn't, that something bad would happen.
So I decided, you know what?
I'm going to ask for a shout-out and call with my brothers because I never talked about
my depression with the elders at all.
This was my first time speaking with them.
And there was one brother, one of the elders who also battled depression and he suggested
have you thought about seeking medical help.
Being professional help was something I never wanted to do.
I thought that I didn't need to do it but sometimes there comes a point where you need
additional help and what you're doing is not enough.
In this world, they make you feel like it's a bad thing that depression is a dirty word
or seeking medical help is something that you don't do.
I realized also that seeking medical help was part of my being able to worship Jehovah
effectively.
That's me doing my part.
Not everyone needs to take that step but for me, this is what I need to do.
And I'm glad I did it because the fact that I've never felt this good in my life.
About a year later, we were released but my wife and I understood that they could put
me back in prison again.
So we needed to use a time until then to the fall in the best way possible.
So what did we do?
Psalm 119, 165.
Abundant peace belongs to those who love your law.
We had family worship, read the Bible, and prayed together.
That's how I spent my four months of freedom.
Then I was put into prison for three years.
When they told me about my cancer being gone, I was really happy, I was ecstatic.
I was like, finally, I'm going to get to do normal things that kid my age should be
able to do.
I don't need to be afraid or anxious anymore.
Unfortunately, I did relax again.
And basically right now, my private condition is there's nothing really more to do.
They're just waiting to let nature take its course, basically.
That's it.
Then harmony with Ephesians chapter 4 verse 26, I had to let myself process the news and
let myself be sad and agree.
Let yourself feel those feelings.
Do not try to repress them, but you can control your thoughts and your actions.
Pretty much my whole life has revolved around my illness, but I learned how to shift focus.
I just don't focus on myself all the time.
I focus on others.
There are trials that are different, but just as hard.
You read the stories on jw.org in the newsroom.
The Russian brothers and sisters, I pray for them constantly because they are going through
a very tough time.
There is definitely more happiness in giving than receiving.
In our situation, this proved true.
I would say this really helps to relieve your pain.
If you focus on yourself, your pain gets worse.
When you focus on others and on their problems, your pain lessons diminishes.
Antonet, I was so, when I was told that we would talk with each other, this was something
very special for me.
Same for me too, when the brothers told me about meeting you, I was really excited.
Thank you for your prayers on behalf of the brothers in Russia.
They are precious.
We can learn so much from you.
Thank you.
It's really nice that you can say that we have both been through many hardships.
I'm sure Pradhan was super hard.
You know, in prison, us brothers had a saying, if you ask, how much worse can it get?
You won't have to wait long to find out.
Or in other words, when you think how much worse can it get for sure something worse
is bound to happen.
And when we received our sentence, we thought, well, that's it.
That's the worst that could happen.
And then, of course, it got worse.
Upon arrival at the prison, we were beaten up and for hours, we were humiliated.
We thought, how much worse can it get than the next day we were told, you're going
to the punishment cell.
We thought, well, how much worse can it get?
The first to start it with one floor, then I went to another floor.
And then the whole entire hospital, every floor, had COVID patients.
That was some of the hardest nursing that I've ever done in my life.
And all my years of nursing, and we lost a lot of good nurses that were right in the
trenches with me that were in there doing their best.
We lost a lot of good people.
And though I was on medication to help me, it still didn't take the depression away.
You're like, what's the point?
I can't save anyone.
I can't help anyone.
It was devastating.
It truly, truly was devastating.
Have you ever felt, as Felix did, when he asked, how much worse can it get?
Nevertheless, a spiritual person can see each new challenge as an opportunity to rely
on Jehovah.
As we watch the concluding part of this video, please take note of how Jehovah strengthened
these brothers and sisters and deepened their friendship with him.
Think about your own circumstances and the ways that Jehovah has helped you through
trials, and have full confidence that he will continue to do so.
And then I decided that I was going to stop asking how worse it could get.
I asked Jehovah for endurance, enjoy for that day, just for that day.
And at those times, I just cry to Jehovah, talk to Jehovah about how I'm feeling and
to stop for his peace to help me to deal.
I've talked to Jehovah very intimately and personally, but never, like I have when I was
so alone there, I realized that I was going to die.
I asked Jehovah, if he saw enough good in me, if he would just resurrect me, that I'd
love to be in his new world and see my husband again and my children.
And I thanked him so much for the life that I had.
And I felt such a peace that I'd never felt before.
And then I just knew was Jehovah getting me out.
The obedience, just doing what we were told, it came from Jehovah and it was so simple
that gave him something to bless and it may have saved my life.
I just never wanted to be a burden on people, but the brothers and sisters had come from
all over the country to work from this house, the other houses, all of them.
They made me feel wanted and they made me feel loved.
To feel like Jehovah cared enough to give attention to you, I just felt so unworthy and
hear all these people are here taking care of me and you just look at them.
And then you think, I'm part of this organization, I got to do better.
I got to be like them and make other people happy.
When I'm able to help people who are bottling depression, I feel like Jehovah is using
me in that way.
And it makes me happy that I can be of use to Jehovah.
It's good to feel, it's so nice to feel good again, to feel happy again, to be able
to smile, to be able to take enjoyment in the small things, you know, in Jehovah's
creation and, you know, just be happy that I'm alive.
So yeah.
Now I have a stable job, I work at a hardware store, man, I feel like peace.
The universities have made me stronger and overall, I have a much closer relationship
with Jehovah, but I'm still making bread.
And at home, yeah, I'm the one who irons the clothes.
After a while, I found out that I was being deported.
I remember getting off the train.
They took me through the back door, but my wife, Genia, was standing at the main entrance.
She was on the phone, she couldn't see me, she was looking at the main entrance.
And I threw my bag down as I ran to her.
She could see from the corner of her eyes, someone was running.
She was a little confused, even scared.
And there I was, hugging the person I loved the most.
It was one of the most beautiful days of my life.
When I heard that you were praying for us and for the brothers and sisters in Russia,
it really encouraged me and Felix, it's such an example for me personally.
We mentioned it in our prayer yesterday, Felix was saying that you are a great example
of how we need to genuinely care for our brothers and sisters.
We love you very much.
Goodbye.
Good night.
My cancer's uncurable, but I know the cure isn't the new system, so that's the cure.
I like to imagine when that time happens, what will I be doing?
Obviously, I'm going to be jumping for joy because I'm going to be rid of my cancer.
I'm going to enjoy food that we never really got to enjoy.
I'm going to have so many animals, I'm going to make a house, I'm going to learn how to
make a house.
Peace in this world is not the absence of illness, danger, persecution, or economic problems.
Peace in this world is listening to Jehovah's guidance, praying to Jehovah constantly,
meditating on Jehovah's word, and his promises.
Peace in this world is also having good friends by our side, or having a good sense of humor.
What I've learned from all of this is peace isn't from what's outside, from what's going
on, or what you're experiencing.
I've learned that peace is on the inside, and that comes from Jehovah.
These examples we've just seen are of ordinary people with feelings like ours.
Yet they felt peace even when confronting serious trials.
How did they do it?
When Miguel lost his job, he kept his focus on serving Jehovah, and he was not too proud
to do humble work to provide for his family.
Margaret was prepared for a natural disaster, and throughout her ordeal she prayed to Jehovah.
While struggling with depression, Nikki did research using our publications and asked
for help from the elders.
Even when facing brutal persecution, Felix showed kindness to his persecutors.
He knew that the way he responded would reflect Christian qualities.
And dear Antoinette, despite her diagnosis, focuses not on herself, but on helping others.
As she said, the cure for her, as it is for all of us, is God's kingdom.
If you are experiencing trials, focus on what you can control, help others, be grateful,
and rely on Jehovah and his organization.
If you are not experiencing serious trials, do what you can to prepare for them by building
yourself up spiritually.
Do not be anxious.
Fear of what might happen is often worse than the trial itself.
Trust in Jehovah and be assured that he will never abandon his friends.
The dear brothers and sisters whom we've just listened to are doing well spiritually.
We thank them for participating in these interviews.
We'd also like to thank all our brothers and sisters working in the medical field
who have gone the extra mile during this pandemic.
James 5-11 reads,
We consider happy those who have endured.
You have heard of the endurance of Job and have seen the outcome Jehovah gave.
That Jehovah is very tender in affection and merciful.
The blessings we receive by enduring trials can strengthen us for the future and help us
to become the kind of person that Jehovah wants us to be.
The inner peace and joy we experience is a gift from Jehovah.
As these brothers and sisters from around the world have reminded us,
we need never doubt that our wonderful Heavenly Father will bless all those who continue loving
Him.
We thank all of the sisters and brothers who were interviewed for their sincere comments
and for allowing us to benefit and learn from their experiences.
These candid interviews show that we can remain at peace even when enduring severe trials.
Jehovah always supports and cares for us, his loyal servants.
The time has now come for the baptism discourse.
We encourage all baptism candidates to pay particular attention.
How does walking and Jehovah's way bring peace?
How can we stay on the road to everlasting life?
Please listen carefully, as Brother William Turner, a helper to the service committee, delivers
the talk, go on walking and the way of peace.
We cannot express to you baptism candidates around the world how much of a privilege it
is for us to share in this occasion with you.
You are following through on the most important decision you've ever made to make it known
publicly that you have dedicated your life to God.
We know your situation is very.
Some of you candidates were raised knowing about Jehovah, but you had to develop your
own personal relationship with Him.
Others of you may be taking this step after learning about Jehovah more recently, but
whatever your circumstances, likely it was a journey.
A figurative road you had to travel to get to this point.
In fact, the Bible also compares true worship to a road, a path, or a walkway that has
to be traveled.
In Acts 9 verse 2, as the first century Christian congregation was being established, Jesus
disciples used the term the way to designate their newly established form of worship.
They understood that as baptized Christians, they were walking on a new path, and every
aspect of their lives was involved, and that's going to be the case for you as well.
In fact, note how the Bible describes this.
Turn with me, please, to the book of Ephesians.
And note what is stated in Ephesians chapter 4, and we'll read verses 22 through 24.
There it says, you were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your
formal course of conduct, and that is being corrupted according to its deceptive desires.
And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude, and should put
on the new personality that was created according to God's will in true righteousness and loyalty.
So like the first century Christians, you have come to know the truth about Jehovah,
and the things you've learned has led you to become baptism candidates.
Like all of God's people, you've done as verse 22 states to put away the old personality.
But there in verse 23, we must also continue to be made new in our dominant mental attitude.
This involves our thoughts, what we allow our mind to dwell on.
Now you note the footnote for that verse indicates this term could also be rendered as the
force actuating our mind, or literally translate it to the spirit of your mind.
In the English language, perhaps you've heard someone say that they are in good spirits,
or you've heard someone described as being mean spirit it.
Well that's a description of one's dominant mental attitude, one's thoughts and motivations.
It's what moves us to act the way that we do.
Our goal as baptized servants of Jehovah is to gain a dominant mental attitude that
aligns and is in harmony with God's thoughts.
Now that won't always be easy.
It takes time and a lot of effort.
Those who walk in the way of peace often encounter trials.
And to stay on that road, we must be willing to make sacrifices.
Like some of those first century Christians, we may have to endure direct persecution.
But if we continue to walk in Jehovah's way, we're going to be happy and Jehovah is going
to bless us.
In Luke chapter 1, verse 79, he assures us that he will guide our feet in the way of peace.
That's a comforting thought, isn't it?
So we're excited.
We're excited that you baptism candidates have undertaken this journey and know that you
have some eight and a half million other witnesses on this road with you.
And today it is our honor and privilege to welcome you.
To welcome you to Jehovah's way of peace and the road leading off into life.
As we go through our discussion today, we're going to answer three questions.
First, why is it important that we do not give up on walking in Jehovah's way of peace?
Second, how does walking in Jehovah's way bring us peace?
And third, what can we do to continue walking in Jehovah's way of peace?
Well, let's address our first question.
Why is it important that we do not give up in walking in Jehovah's way of peace?
Now, I answer that.
Let's turn please to 2 Corinthians chapter 4.
And we'll note 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 16 through 18.
There it reads, therefore, we do not give up.
But even if the man we are outside is wasting away, certainly the man we are inside
is being renewed from day to day.
For though the tribulation is momentary and light, it works out for us a glory that is
of more and more surpassing greatness and is everlasting.
While we keep our eyes not on the things seen, but on the things unseen.
For the things seen are temporary, but the things unseen are everlasting.
Do you see why we can't give up?
It's because being one of Jehovah's Witnesses requires that we remain active and persevere
in the way of peace.
You dear candidates have not given up in your efforts to please Jehovah and to qualify
to become part of His people.
And why is that?
It's because of your love for Him.
And you know that any trials and obstacles you face now are momentary and light when
compared to an eternity in God's new world.
Today you will enter into a special relationship with Jehovah God.
So don't let anyone or anything jeopardize that relationship.
Let it be something that you cherish because that relationship is everlasting.
So keep walking in Jehovah's way of peace.
Notice on what it means to have Him as a friend, to have Him guiding your steps.
If you don't give up, then despite any trials you face, you will continue to enjoy Jehovah's
blessings.
And we're confident that you can do so.
But to highlight how this can be done, at this time, we're pleased to introduce Sister
Indira Alfonso.
Sister Alfonso was baptized in 2006, and now serves with her husband as Bethel family members
in Warwick.
Sister Alfonso, can you tell us a little about your journey, how you became associated with
Jehovah's Witnesses?
Yes, I was born in Cuba, but my mom and I moved to the United States when I was nine.
Even though I was young, I felt it was important to look for God.
So whenever we moved, I would visit the local churches in the area, even getting baptised
in a number of them.
When I was 11, my mom let me move in with my aunt, who was one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
And from there, she asked my mom if I could study with a pioneer sister from her congregation
and my mom agreed.
Well, nice to see that even at a young age, you had a spiritual need.
So during this time leading up to your baptism as one of Jehovah's Witnesses, did you encounter
any trials that threatened to make you give up?
Yes, I did.
I made changes very quickly.
I stopped celebrating holidays, stopped praying to idols, but these changes were very
strange to my mom, just difficult for her to understand.
She really was afraid I was being brainwashed.
So after studying for several months, she had me moved back in with her, which meant the
end of my studies and no more attending meetings.
It wasn't long before my association was affecting my speech and my behavior.
I found myself easily influenced to even celebrate my birthday again.
I could feel I was moving further away from Jehovah instead of closer to him.
I'm sorry to hear that sister, Alfonso.
So what helped you not to give up and to go on walking in the way of peace?
What helped me was this scripture in Matthew 1037, where Jesus said, whoever has greater
affection for father or mother than for me is not worthy of me.
I realized that a peaceful relationship with Jehovah might mean no peace with my family.
But I knew that if I were to ever gain my mom, I had to walk with Jehovah the right way
and not give up.
So one night I prayed to him, crying for forgiveness and asking for his help.
Until my surprise a few days later, without any explanation, my mom had me moved back in
with my aunt.
I resumed my Bible studies and after a year later at the age of 15, I got baptized.
Jehovah clearly heard and answered your prayer.
Since then, have you seen continued evidence of Jehovah's guidance?
A good friend helped me to adjust the way I was communicating with my mom.
So one day I called her and expressed to her, how much I truly appreciate and love her.
I didn't want us to be distant anymore.
I explained to her that my love for her had never changed, but my love for Jehovah had come first.
So that conversation was a turning point for us.
Now we have had many positive discussions and she's much more understanding of my decision.
Seeing Jehovah's guidance in my life makes me determined to continue walking in his way of peace.
Thank you so much, Sister Alfonso.
We appreciate your faithful example and comments.
Well, let's address our second point.
How did walking in Jehovah's way bring us peace?
As to answer this, we're going to compare the path or journey you've taken on the road to life
with a literal road or walkway.
And in making this comparison, we find a number of similarities.
First, both roads have boundaries, a purpose, and a destination.
Let's start with that first one, boundaries.
On a literal road, we may see yield or do not interest signs, guard rails on the side of the road,
or lines on the road to help us stay in our lane.
Well, those are boundaries.
And those boundaries are there for our protection.
Because if we step outside of them, we risk getting hurt or lost.
It would be great if we could tell you that as you continue on the road to life after your baptism,
we would love to say that the rest of your journey is smooth sailing.
You'll have nothing but safe travels.
But the reality is that you will face challenges and test of your faith.
The devil will make sure of it.
He will make sure that you are confronted with temptations.
He wants to do whatever he can to damage your special relationship with Jehovah.
But we're confident that you can succeed.
You can be successful and avoid danger if you remain within the boundaries of Jehovah's way of peace.
Now, how do you stay within those boundaries?
By continuing to learn about Jehovah's laws and principles and obeying them.
That obedience will not only protect you, but it will give you inner peace,
peace that comes from having a clean conscience.
The next similarity between a literal road and being on the road to life that we'll discuss
is having a purpose.
When we travel on a literal road, our plan usually is not to get on the road and just
stand still, to become stationary or watch other people or vehicles go by.
No, we're there for a reason.
The purpose of the road is to enable movement to help us get from one place to another.
Well, in a similar sense, being on Jehovah's way of peace allows you to move forward
to make continual spiritual progress.
And of course, there are many ways that we can make spiritual advancement.
One important way that all Christians can do so is in cultivating spiritual qualities.
This is so pleasing to Jehovah.
Consider with me, for example, Galatians chapter 6, verse 10.
Notice what's mentioned here, Galatians chapter 6, verse 10.
It says, so then, as long as we have the opportunity, let us work what is good toward all.
But especially toward those related to us in the faith.
So one way to advance spiritually is to look for ways to do good things for others,
both inside and outside the congregation.
This pandemic has afforded us many opportunities to do this.
We've been able to call and check on others and distribute food or supplies when needed.
And think of what our brothers have done time and again to assist others during natural disasters.
So take a minute and think about your local area.
How can you work what is good toward all?
Are there ones that need assistance getting food or running errands?
Is there someone who could use a good word of encouragement to cheer them up?
Do we know individuals who have lost loved ones in death
with whom we could share words of comfort or maybe simply provide a listening ear?
You see, by displaying spiritual qualities,
qualities such as kindness, compassion, hospitality, generosity,
see, you're going to feel deeply rewarded for doing these things.
And you're pleasing Jehovah because you will show that your purpose for being on the road to life
is not just to save yourself, but to help others.
And there was a third similarity between being on a literal road and being on the road to life.
In both cases, we have a destination that we want to reach.
Traveling on a literal path will eventually take you to your destination.
And as a witness of Jehovah, our journey, our walk on this figurative road,
will lead us to our destination, the goal of enjoying a peaceful friendship with God forever.
Now, although we long for that time in God's new world, even now we can experience the blessings
and inner peace that come from a life of service to Jehovah.
We now have the privilege to speak with Sister Gloria Hurd.
Sister Hurd has been baptized for over 70 years and has enjoyed a rich spiritual life
and special full-time service with her husband, brother Samuel Hurd, of the governing body.
Sister Hurd, you've had many rich spiritual blessings and we know that you've encountered
challenges along the way. But as you've carried out these assignments through the years,
walking in Jehovah's way of peace, how have you managed to enjoy greater inner peace?
I learned, Brother Turner, that if Jehovah gives you an assignment,
he will give you what you need to fulfill it. We learned and really benefited from the
traveling overseas and their wives. It was such a privilege to serve along with these faithful
brothers and sisters and several of them had served me and my family when I was very young.
So to see their faithfulness, to see their happiness and to see that they really had inner peace,
really benefited me. I learned from that and I wanted to follow their example.
That help from others can be so valuable. How else have you managed?
I've enjoyed inner peace too from praying to Jehovah a lot. Many times we had very little
money or no money, but we never missed a meal and we never missed any theocratic event.
We learned that having no money is not an obstacle to Jehovah. He heard our prayers,
he answered them and it was if the blessing sometime just fell out of heaven.
Prayer can be so powerful. Thank you for sharing that.
But now, how has walking in Jehovah's way of peace helped you to have peace with others?
I worked and lived with many sisters and they all had different personalities.
So I learned that I had to apply Romans 12, 18 where it says, as far as it depends upon me,
be peaceable with all men and women. So I learned that I have to adjust my personality sometimes to
keep peace. This happened very often, but one time we moved in with a sister on Tuesday morning
and something I said upset her very much. She got very angry. Well, I decided not to pursue the
issue because I had lived with her for a week and I just decided to let her see by my conduct
that I could never have met what she thought. So as the week went by, the days went by, the tension
lesson and by Monday, when we left, we were the best of friends and she gave me a big hug
and nothing more was said about the subject. Well, it sounds like you handled that beautifully
sisterhood. Your spiritual qualities were evident. Well, finally, how has walking in Jehovah's
way of peace helped you have peace with God? Well, when you see Jehovah acting your behalf over
and over and over again, it makes you feel that you have his approval. Now that Sam and I are in
our senior years, we feel he has given us the desire of our heart by allowing us to serve
at Bethel, which had been our goal for many years. And I know that as long as I stay faithful to
Jehovah, he will continue to grant me inner peace. And we have that confidence as well.
Thank you so much, sisterhood. We deeply appreciate your comments and your encouraging expressions.
Well, let's now address our final point. What can we do to continue walking in Jehovah's
way of peace? Well, let's go back to our illustration of the road. On a literal road,
travelers may need to make adjustments in response to changing road conditions or bad weather.
Similarly, as you go on walking in the way of peace, you will need to readjust your actions
and thinking from time to time. Recently, a circuit overseer shared an interesting point regarding
our thoughts and attitudes on matters. He said that they could either serve as a prison
or a passport. A prison in that our thoughts and actions can confine or restrict us
or a passport in that they can take us where we need to be. Right now, we need to be
and stay on this road to life. So we want to make sure that any needed adjustments are made in
our thoughts and our actions so that we're not confined or restricted in making spiritual progress.
Well, what might be some areas that we'll need to make adjustments? Notice, please, Paul's words
in 2nd Corinthians chapter 13. And we'll read 2nd Corinthians chapter 13 verse 11.
Paul says, finally, brothers, continue to rejoice, to be readjusted, to be comforted,
to think in agreement, to live peaceably, and the God of love and of peace will be with you.
Did you notice three areas in this verse where Paul states we can make adjustments?
First, he says, continue to rejoice. We can lose our peace and joy if we become overwhelmed by
the anxieties of life. So in order to rejoice, can you make it a goal to focus on things that
bring joy rather than sadness? So if you're not feeling well or coping with chronic pain,
you can focus on God's promise when no one will say, I am sick. If you're facing beliefs or
or opposition for your beliefs, focus on the fact that we're part of a brotherhood, a brotherhood
that supports and prays for us, and arrangements are in place to keep us spiritually strong.
If you're discouraged by world events, you can rejoice in the fact that you have a hope for
the future. And we know how this all ends. We know that better times are ahead.
The point is, don't let negative thoughts restrict or limit your progress. Instead,
make the needed adjustments so that you can move forward and continue to rejoice.
Not another area for readjustment, Paul mentions in verse 11.
There he says, continue to think in agreement. There were members of the congregation back in
the first century that were promoting apostate ideas. Others were introducing controversial ideas
that were not directly unscriptural, but that were divisive. This resulted in bickering and
arguing, arguments over words, really creating a spiritually unhealthy atmosphere.
Well, what's going to help us to continue to think in agreement?
Remember Paul's words at 2nd Timothy 2, 23, to reject foolish and ignorant debates
knowing that they produce fights. Of course, we react strongly when facing issues that
clearly violate Jehovah's moral laws. But if no scriptural principle is being violated,
we're wise to abstain from promoting our personal opinions.
We want to do all we can to avoid starting or being drawn into disagreements that can disrupt
the peace of the congregation. Now back in verse 11, a third area where we can make adjustments
is continue to live peaceably. Did you notice from the interview with our sisters
what they both did when challenged, would face with the challenge that threatened their peace?
They took the matter to Jehovah in prayer. They reflected on scriptures found in God's word.
And then they looked to see how they could apply those verses in their particular situation.
It helped them to not only have inner peace, but peace with others as well.
So let your spiritual qualities shine through. Continue to work on keeping peace,
showing those qualities of being loving and generous toward all.
But especially with our close family members, whether they are witnesses or not.
Well, we want to conclude by reminding you baptism candidates that today marks a significant
milestone in your journey, in your relationship with Jehovah. So take the time to appreciate
what this day means for you. We're so proud of all of you. You will never regret the decision
you have made to dedicate your life to Jehovah. But keep in mind that after today and beyond,
the journey is not yet over. Really it's just the beginning. So we encourage you to do all you can
to stay on the road to life. Keep in mind the points we consider today. First, do not give up on
walking in Jehovah's way of peace. Your life depends on it. Allow Jehovah to guide your steps.
Second, stay within the boundaries on the road to life. Remember, you're walking with a purpose.
And that will lead you to your destination. Peaceful friendship with Jehovah forever.
And finally, keep making any needed adjustments in your thoughts, your attitude and actions so that
you can maintain peace with Jehovah and peace with others. If you continue to do these things,
not only will you have peace, but as the last part of 2 Corinthians 13 11 says,
the God of love and of peace will be with you. May you always remember that promise,
which Jehovah makes to those who go on walking in the way of peace.
Thank you, brother Turner. Similar to last year, the arrangements for baptism will vary in each
location. Each local congregation's elders have made suitable provisions in accord with local
circumstances for candidates to be baptized after the conclusion of this session. We thank
Jehovah for the timely spiritual food we enjoy during this session of the convention.
Our next session will show us how to avoid common pitfalls to pursuing peace.
It will highlight specific activities that peacemakers excel at.
We will also enjoy part one of the feature Bible drama. But now, let's sing together the closing
song for this session. Song number 54, this is the way. After the song, you may have your own
concluding prayer. That's song number 54.